DOC-778 What's new 4.40.0 and 4.41.0 (#112)
redpanda-data/rp-connect-docs: modules/get-started/pages/whats-new.adoc

For a full list of product updates, and details of updates prior to version 4.29.0, see the https://github.com/redpanda-data/connect/releases[Redpanda Connect release notes^]. For new Cloud-specific features, see xref:redpanda-cloud:get-started:whats-new-cloud.adoc[].

== Version 4.42.0

> This release introduces a xref:guides:bloblang/playground.adoc[Bloblang playground] where you can try out your Bloblang syntax and get immediate feedback. It also updates Redpanda Connect licensing checks for Self-Managed. Starting from version 4.42.0, you must xref:get-started:licensing.adoc[apply your Enterprise Edition license] to use any Enterprise connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release introduces a xref:guides:bloblang/playground.adoc[Bloblang playground], where you can try out your Bloblang syntax and get immediate feedback. It also adds licensing checks for Redpanda Connect. Starting from version 4.42.0, you must xref:get-started:licensing.adoc[add your Enterprise Edition license] to Redpanda Connect before using any Enterprise connectors.
```

== Version 4.41.0

This release adds the `max_records_per_request` field to the xref:components:outputs/aws_sqs.adoc[`aws_sqs` output].

=== Packaging update

Starting from version 4.41.0, the `-cgo` suffixed Docker image is no longer available due to low demand and the unacceptable cadence with which the image base (Debian) receives security updates.

To create your own CGO builds, run the following command:

```bash
CGO_ENABLED=1 make TAGS=x_benthos_extra redpanda-connect. 
```

== Version 4.40.0

> This update includes a beta release of the xref:components:inputs/pg_stream.adoc[`pg_stream` input] for Self-Managed and Cloud, which captures data changes made to a PostgreSQL database in real time and streams them to Redpanda Connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update includes a beta release of the xref:components:inputs/pg_stream.adoc[`pg_stream` input] for Redpanda Connect Self-Managed and Cloud, which captures data changes made to a PostgreSQL database in real-time and streams them to Redpanda Connect.
```

Author: Updated.

=== Component updates

This release adds:

> * The `metadata_max_age` field to the xref:components:outputs/redpanda_migrator_offsets.adoc[`redpanda_migrator_offsets` output].

Reviewer: Maybe put this in a table to make it easy to scan.

Author: I'll open a ticket for this, so I can go back over all the other releases and make them consistent.

* The `translate_schema_ids` and `schema_registry_output_resource` to the xref:components:outputs/redpanda_migrator.adoc[`redpanda_migrator` output].
* The `backfill_dependencies` and `input_resource` fields to the xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` output].
* Options to optimize the build of the data output from the xref:components:outputs/snowflake_streaming.adoc[`snowflake_streaming` output].

Other changes:

* The following components now use the https://github.com/twmb/franz-go/tree/master/pkg/sr[Franz Kafka Schema Registry client library^]: xref:components:inputs/schema_registry.adoc[`schema_registry` input] and xref:components:outputs/schema_registry.adoc[output], and the xref:components:processors/schema_registry_encode.adoc[`schema_registry_encode`] and xref:components:processors/schema_registry_decode.adoc[`schema_registry_decode`] processors.
* The xref:components:outputs/snowflake_streaming.adoc[`snowflake_streaming` output] can now automatically create tables in Snowflake, when the `schema_evolution.enabled` field is set to `true`.

==== Deprecations:

> This release removes: 

Reviewer: It'd be useful to make it easy to scan for affected components and the new name. Alos, we should call out any actions users must take. Maybe something like:

Inputs

**Deprecated field**: `kafka_timestamp`
**Affected components**:
- redpanda`
- ...
**Replaced by**: `kafka_timestamp_ms`

Action required

Modify all systems that process these fields to ensure compatibility with the new field names.
